Single Sign-On for Patient Dossiers [DRAFT]
===========================================

When used in conjunction with an EPD, RoQua has an authentication scheme that relies on the EPD to open a URL that will authenticate a user and open a given dossier number. This enables EPD vendors to build a single sign-on solution that integrates RoQua without the need for the management of users within RoQua. When the SSO-authentication is enabled, the only way for a user to open a dossier, is when the EPD generates a URL with a valid signature.

This signature is generated as a hash of all parameters in the URL, as well as an organization specific secret key. RoQua can then validate the request by calculating the hash itself, and comparing it against the given hash. This protects against tampering with the URL.

In order to ensure URLs cannot be used more than once, a nonce must be supplied as one of the parameters.

A [reference implementation](https://github.com/roqua/authmac) is available.

## API Call

To open RoQua EPD-interface as a given user for a given dossier, tell a browser
window or frame to navigate to:

`https://epd.#(GGZ_NAME).roqua.nl/epd/session/create`

The following query parameters are required:

### `version`

The value of this parameter should be `3` if you are implementing the specification you are currently reading.

### `nonce` - Randomly generated unique token

Nonces should be unique for each request, and are used to determine whether requests have been submitted multiple times. In our reference application we generate nonces by generating a string of 32 hexadecimal randomly chosen characters, but any approach that produces relatively random alphanumeric strings should suffice.

### `timestamp` - The Unix time when this request was constructed

Timestamps are supplied as the number of seconds since the Unix epoch at the moment the request was generated, which should be easily generated in all programming languages. Note that we reject requests with timestamps that are too far in the past or future, and that it is therefore important to keep the clock of the system generating requests in sync with NTP. Additionally, in the beginning of the year 2038 you might wish for this to be generated as a 64-bit signed integer.

Because we reject requests with old timestamps, it is safe to assume that the uniqueness of a nonce only has to be guaranteed for up to 24 hours, if you desire to make sure you generate unique nonces. After all, it is reasonable to say that the chance of a collision between to randomly generated nonces is slim, and the consequences of it are minor (the sign-on would fail, and the user would likely try again, which would generate a new nonce), and that such guarantees need not be made by the EPD.

### `userid` - Identifier for the professional

This identifies the employee being signed in.

Identifiers must be completely unique; if you're using multiple datastores on your end, for example, make sure there cannot be any collisions when passing them to RoQua as that will result in account conflicts.

### `clientid` - Identifier for the dossier

This identifies patient dossiers in RoQua. The value given here will also be used in our data exports and in HL7 communication for data associated with this dossier.

Identifiers must be completely unique; if you're using multiple datastores on your end, for example, make sure there cannot be any collisions when passing them to RoQua as that will result in account conflicts.

### `hmac` - HMAC-SHA256 hash.

In order to make sure that requests cannot be tampered with, we require that all requests are signed with an HMAC. The mechanism behind HMAC is described in [RFC 2104](http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2104.txt), although as with all crypto-related things, please do not go implement them yourself. OpenSSL has an implementation that can be used in most programming languages that can interface with a C-library, so it's doubtful there is not already a library that can take care of the HMAC algorithm for you.

The HMAC algorithm can be used with any cryptographic hashing function, and we decided that **SHA256** should be safe enough for the forseeable future.

HMACs then are calculated using three parameters: the hashing function, a secret key and a message. The secret key is a 64 character long string which will be exchanged in some manner.

The message is generated by taking all parameter values, sorting them by their parameter keys, and joining them with a pipe character `|`. This means that the following parameters:

```
foo=value-of-foo&bar=value-of-bar&timestamp=1359373315
```

would become the following input message for the HMAC:

```
value-of-bar|value-of-foo|1359373315
```

Given a secret `very-secret`, this message would result in the following HMAC: `7ada2feaa64e7af5665b5ad92530f64983fdb3c0`.

# TODO

* Explain the sorting procedure for the HMAC message better. Possibly just do it like Twitter does (see references)
* Update reference implementation to v3
* Voor iedere string geldt lowercase en trimmen (een lege parameter wordt dus een empty string ‘’):GGZ_NAME=rtrim(ltrim(lowercase(GGZ_NAME)))

# References

* http://blog.jcoglan.com/2012/06/09/why-you-should-never-use-hash-functions-for-message-authentication/
* https://dev.twitter.com/docs/auth/creating-signature
* https://developers.facebook.com/docs/howtos/login/signed-request/#step2
* http://rc3.org/2011/12/02/using-hmac-to-authenticate-web-service-requests/
* http://blog.jcoglan.com/2012/06/09/why-you-should-never-use-hash-functions-for-message-authentication/
* http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4868#page-17